In this lesson we're going to spend a
little
time looking at how strings are handled in
Python.
So we're also gonna work with the
interactive
shell again this lesson, so let's load
that first.
So a string is any set of characters,
actually, to be
more precise, any sequence of characters
inside single or double quotes.
So we can write a string Hello World
inside
single quotes, or we can put it inside
double quotes.
Single quotes are more the standard for
Python, so I'll try
to use those more often, but double quotes
are more standard across
most programming languages, so every once
in a while I will
revert to double quotes, just out of habit
more than anything else.
So our string, str, holds the value Hello
World.
One of the first operations we can perform
on strings is concatenation.
So here I'm going to concatenate another
string to string by using the plus sign.
So now if I look at string it says, hello
world, goodbye world.
So concatenation would be one of the first
operations you need
to learn when working with strings because
often you're gonna want to
combine data into one string or pin data
to an existing
string so you'll do that via the
concatenation operator, the plus sign.
There's several functions and operations
we can perform on strings.
One of the built-in functions is len for
length, and
that will tell us how many characters are
in a string.
Let's go back and set our string back to
Hello World, so
if we perform len on the string, we'll see
that that's 13 characters.
Strings are sequences in Python where each
character of the string has a unique
position.
So for example, if I wanna see the first
character of the string, I can use
what looks like array notation to display
the
first character of the string, which is H.
And notice I use 0, because the first
position is position 0.
Position 1 will be the second character,
which is the E.
Something else you can do is you can take
what's called a slice.
So I can write 0:4, and that gives me the
first four characters.
So if I do any other slice, we get
characters like that.
Or, I could just provide the number of
characters I want, and that will give me
those.
Another way to do it would be, and
that gives me everything after the
specified character.
So there's lots of ways to work with
slices in Python.
You can repeat a string by using the
multiplication operator, so
that str times 2 will give me hello world,
hello world.
Let's look at another example.
[BLANK_AUDIO]
The split operator takes a single
argument, a delimiter, and
splits up the string into a list, based on
that delimiter.
So in the string above, I have now is the
time,
each separated by a comma, each word
separated by a comma, and
then when I type string split on the
comma, split returns
a list with each word in its own position
in a list.
We're gonna talk about lists in a future
lesson,
so don't worry about those too much right
now.
We can also put special characters into a
list.
For example, backslash N is the new line
character.
And if I did a print.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
Like so, notice that it put a newline
between hello world and goodbye, world.
Finally, if I have rogue spaces in a
string, I can use strip
and its sister function rstrip to strip
out those spaces.
Use that a lot when you're converting text
from one
source to another, or just trying to clean
up data.
A lot of data that you get from the user
has extraneous spaces at the
beginning or end of strings, and you can
use strip and rstrip to clean it up.
There's a multitude of information I can
provide you
about strings, but these are the major
concepts and functions
and features you need to understand to
work with
most of the rest of the lessons in this
course.
So we'll leave strings for now and move to
another data type, the
boolean data type which we use to work
with true and false values.